<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charaset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="robots" content="index,follow" />

    <title>The Switte Programming Language</title>

    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />

    <link href="/favicon.png" rel="icon" type="image/png" />
    <link href="/res/common.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<script type="text/javascript">
  var _paq = _paq || [];
  /* tracker methods like "setCustomDimension" should be called before "trackPageView" */
  _paq.push(["setDocumentTitle", document.domain + "/" + document.title]);
  _paq.push(["setCookieDomain", "*.lijero.co"]);
  _paq.push(["setDomains", ["*.lijero.co"]]);
  _paq.push(['trackPageView']);
  _paq.push(['enableLinkTracking']);
  (function() {
    var u="//p.lijero.co/";
    _paq.push(['setTrackerUrl', u+'foo']);
    _paq.push(['setSiteId', '1']);
    var d=document, g=d.createElement('script'), s=d.getElementsByTagName('script')[0];
    g.type='text/javascript'; g.async=true; g.defer=true; g.src=u+'foo.js'; s.parentNode.insertBefore(g,s);
  })();
</script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <nav>
      <span id="navbrand"><a href="/switte/">Switte PL</a></span>
      <ul>
	<li><a href="/switte/download/">Download</a></li>
	<span> | </span>
	<li><a href="/switte/documentation/">Documentation</a></li>
	<span> | </span>
	<li><a href="/switte/community/">Community</a></li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
    <article>
      <p>
	<strong>Switte</strong> is a programming language that uses simplicity to its advantage.
      </p>
      <pre><code>
This is an example program.
> ABC = mulI1 parI1 [ mulE1 ] [ lemI ] map
      </code></pre>
      <h2>Features</h2>
      <h3>Instant Relocation</h3>
      <p>Save a program mid-execution and restart it anywhere.</p>
      <h3>Flat Model</h3>
      <p>
	Arbitrary partitions of a program are equivalent.
	Programs can safely be run out-of-order and trivially parallelized!
      </p>
      <h3>Partial Evaluation</h3>
      <p>Don't have the whole set of data all at once? That's fine!</p>
      <h3>Complete Safety</h3>
      <p>There's no such thing as a runtime error.</p>
    </article>
  </body>
</html>
