<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />

  <title>Siberius: Knowledge</title>

  <meta name="copyright" content="James Martin 2019, CC BY-SA 4.0" />
  <meta name="author" content="James Martin" itemprop="creator" />

  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/res/style.css" />

  <link rel="canonical" href="https://jamestmartin.me/lore/knowledge" />

  <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="/apple-touch-icon.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" sizes="32x32" href="/favicon-32x32.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" sizes="16x16" href="/favicon-16x16.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="manifest" href="/site.webmanifest?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="mask-icon" href="/safari-pinned-tab.svg?cachebuster=0" color="#5bbad5" />
  <meta name="msapplication-TileColor" content="#da532c" />
  <meta name="theme-color" content="#ffffff" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Siberius: Knowledge</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>Knowledge</strong>
    <em>(<a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Intelligence">Int</a>;
      Trained Only)</em> is a family of skills in the Siberius homebrew.
    Knowledge represents your study of some body of lore.
    A knowledge check may be used to answer
    a question regarding your field of study,
    and in addition provide an array of
    <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Skills#Skill_Synergy">
      skill synergies</a>.
  </p>
  <p>
    This skill family is a simplification of
    <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Knowledge_Skill">
      the system used in D&amp;D 3.5e</a>,
    which contains a lot of complexity and useless skills.
  </p>
  <h2>Knowledge checks</h2>
  <p>
    A knowledge check is a free action used to
    recall information about your field of study.
    You cannot re-try knowledge checks; you either know the answer or you don't.
  </p>
  <h3><a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:DC">Difficulty Class</a></h3>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <th>Knowledge DC</th>
      <th>Effect</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">10</td>
      <td>Answer a very easy question.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">15</td>
      <td>Answer a basic question.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">20–30</td>
      <td>Answer a really tough question.</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
  <p>
    For every five points by which your check result exceeds the DC,
    you recall another useful piece of information.
  </p>
  <h2>Specific skills</h2>
  <ul>
    <li>
      <p>
        <strong>Knowledge (survival)</strong> represents your knowledge of
        nature, dungeoneering, and geography.
        It helps you identify plants, animals, monsters and vermin,
        navigate through forests and caverns,
        and predict the weather.
      </p>
      <p>At least five ranks in this skill also give
        a +2 bonus to
        <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Survival_Skill">
          Survival</a> checks in all non-magical environments.
      </p>
      <p>At least five ranks in
        <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Survival_Skill">
          Survival</a> give a +2 bonus to Knowledge (survival) checks
      </p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>
        <strong>Knowledge (social)</strong> represents your knowledge of
        cities, architecture, engineering, history, nobility, and lore.
        It helps you navigate through a city environment,
        talk to people, and identify architectural anomalies.
      </p>
      <p>
        At least five ranks in this skill also give a +2 bonus to:
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Gather_Information_Skill">
              Gather Information</a> checks
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Diplomacy_Skill">
              Diplomacy</a> checks
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Search_Skill">
              Search</a>
            checks to find secret doors or hidden compartments.
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Bard">
              Bardic Knowledge</a> checks
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>
        <strong>Knowledge (magical)</strong> represents your knowledge of
        magic, psionics, religion, and the planes.
        You know about ancient mysteries and traditions,
        magical and holy symbols, magical beasts, the gods, and so forth.
      </p>
      <p>
        At least five ranks in this skill also give a +2 bonus to:
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Spellcraft_Skill">
              Spellcraft</a> checks
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Psicraft_Skill">
              Psicraft</a> checks
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Turn_or_Rebuke_Undead">
              Turning checks against undead</a>
          </li>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Survival_Skill">
              Survival</a>
            checks made on other planes
          </li>
        </ul>
      </p>
      <p>
        At least five ranks in
        <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Autohypnosis_Skill">
          Autohypnosis</a>
        a +2 bonus to Knowledge (magical) checks relating to psionics.
      </p>
    </li>
  </ul>
</body>
</html>
