<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />

  <title>Siberius: Smell</title>

  <meta name="copyright" content="James Martin 2019, CC BY-SA 4.0" />
  <meta name="author" content="James Martin" itemprop="creator" />

  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/res/style.css" />

  <link rel="canonical" href="https://jamestmartin.me/lore/knowledge" />

  <link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="/apple-touch-icon.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" sizes="32x32" href="/favicon-32x32.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="icon" type="image/png" sizes="16x16" href="/favicon-16x16.png?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="manifest" href="/site.webmanifest?cachebuster=0" />
  <link rel="mask-icon" href="/safari-pinned-tab.svg?cachebuster=0" color="#5bbad5" />
  <meta name="msapplication-TileColor" content="#da532c" />
  <meta name="theme-color" content="#ffffff" />
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Siberius: Smell</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>Smell</strong> <em>(Wis)</em>
    is a skill exclusive to creatures with the
    <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Scent">Scent</a> quality
    (i.e. those with an animal-strength sense of smell).
    It allows you to detect approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes,
    and track by sense of smell.
    You can identify familiar odors just as humans do familiar sights.
  </p>
  <p>To quote the
    <a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Scent">Scent SRD</a>
    regarding how a sense of smell functions:
  </p>
  <blockquote cite="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:Scent">
    <p>
      The creature can detect opponents within 30 feet by sense of smell.
      If the opponent is upwind, the range increases to 60 feet;
      if downwind, it drops to 15 feet.
      Strong scents, such as smoke or rotting garbage,
      can be detected at twice the ranges noted above.
      Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench,
      can be detected at triple normal range.
    </p>
    <p>
      When a creature detects a scent,
      the exact location of the source is not revealed—only
      its presence somewhere within range.
      The creature can take a move action to note the direction of the scent.
    </p>
    <p>
      Whenever the creature comes within 5 feet of the source,
      the creature pinpoints the source’s location.
    </p>
    <p>
      Water, particularly running water,
      ruins a trail for air-breathing creatures.
      Water-breathing creatures that have the scent ability,
      however, can use it in the water easily.
    </p>
    <p>
      False, powerful odors can easily mask other scents.
      The presence of such an odor completely spoils
      the ability to properly detect or identify creatures
      [and makes it much more difficult].
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  <p>
    Races with a weak sense of smell like humans recieve a -20 bonus
    to all smell checks.
  </p>
  <h2>Smell checks</h2>
  <p>
    A smell check is made against a <abbr title="Difficulty Class">DC</abbr>
    that reflects how weak the scent you might smell is.
  </p>
  <h3><a href="https://www.dandwiki.com/wiki/SRD:DC">Difficulty Class</a></h3>
  <p>
    This skill has not been properly formalized yet.
    These DCs are purely to get a general idea of a check's difficulty,
    and should not be used as a reference or expectation for success.
    I will update these DCs as the skill is used more in-game.
  </p>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <th>Smell DC</th>
      <th>Scent</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">-30</td>
      <td>Skunk musk sprayed on you.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">-20</td>
      <td>Something rotting right next to you.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">-10</td>
      <td>A pie baking nearby upwind.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">0</td>
      <td>Someone standing right next to you.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">10</td>
      <td>A fresh scent trail (on any surface).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="text-align: center">20</td>
      <td>The scent trail of someone who passed five hours ago.</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
  <p>
    For every five points by which your check result exceeds the DC,
    you smell another detail about the creature which passed.
  </p>
</body>
</html>
